= iRealb

iRealb is a MuseScore Plugin.  

This plugin attempts to convert a MuseScore MusicXML file
into a iRealb chart.

{MuseScore}[http://musescore.org] is a high quality Open Source Music Score Editor.

{iRealb}[http://www.irealb.com/] is a very cool smartphone app for musicians.


== VERSION:

Version 0.1


== SYNOPSIS:

1.  Open MuseScore
2.  Create a regular MuseScore chart
3.  Save your MuseScore chart as a MusicXML file.
4.  Go to Plugins -> iRealb
5.  Select the XML file of you chart.
6.  'Select All' -> Copy the URI from the Text Dialog window. 
    (NOTE: the text dialog window is editable, which is handy for
           quick edits/changes once you get familiar with the 
           iRealb syntax.)
7.  Open a Web Browser and navigate to http://www.irealb.com/editor/
8.  Paste the URI from above in the textarea titled:
    'IMPORT - Paste a song/playlist code here:'
9.  Click 'Import'
10. Compare the Web Editor results with your MuseScore Chart
11. Make the corrections needed via the iRealb Web Editor
    (there will probably be many ;) 
12. Export your song (Email, etc) from the iRealb Web Editor
    to get it on your iRealb app.

== FEATURES:

* converts a MuseScore Chart (exported as a MuseScore MusicXML file) 

  into a irealb chart, that you can import into you smartphone ireal app. 

NOTE: It does not convert every (any ;) chart totally accurately.
      It does often get many of the chords and form correct.
      usually, at the worst, it can save you time creating
      your chart via the Web Editor.

== REQUIREMENTS:

MuseScore must be installed.

NOTE: Tested against MuseScore 1.1 only!

== INSTALL:

1. Download the plugin by right clicking the link and save target as.
2. Uncompress the file (Unzip)
3. Place the unzipped dir, 'irealb' into the plugins directory of 
   MuseScore.

    Windows: 
             C:\Program Files\MuseScore\plugins

    Linux (Ubuntu): 
             /usr/share/mscore-{VERSION}/plugins
             i.e. /usr/share/mscore-1.1/plugins

    MacOSX: not sure

4. Restart or start MuseScore


== OVERVIEW:


* {Other MuseScore Plugins}[http://musescore.org/en/plugins]


== DIAGNOSTICS

* Errors: 
  No errors expected

* Exceptions: 
  No exceptions expected

== CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT:

* If you install MuseScore to a non-standard location,
  you will have to find the plugin directory.

== TESTS:

* TODO: figure out QTScript unit tests ? (or MuseScore Plugin unit tests)

== DEPENDENCIES:

  MuseScore, version 1.1 Must be installed

== INCOMPATIBILITIES:

This plugin may or may not work on versions != 1.1 


== BUGS AND LIMITATIONS:

Many bugs, this works incorrectly more often than correctly.

This library currently provides only very basic conversion operations.

I would prefer to use the Plugin API but currently getting chords
from a Harmony object is not possible. The approach this plugin uses
just parses XML for node elements. 
ref see: http://musescore.org/en/node/12727


== SUPPORT:

good luck! -haha

Please let the author know any bugs, this release has recieved limited
testing. (Do to lack of different types of lead sheets)

David Wright (david_v_wright@yahoo.com)


== CHANGELOG:

* initial release

== LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT:

Copyright 2011 David Wright (david_v_wright@yahoo.com), all rights reserved.

released under the GPL license.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

== AUTHOR:

Author:: {David Wright}[http://www.dwright.us/] <david_v_wright@yahoo.com>

== ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:

Thanks to 'JazzClub' for the XML2Impro-Visor.js plugin

This code contains ideas and code from XML2Impro-Visor.js

Also Thanks to Marc Sabatella, who's articles on
'New Jazz / Lead Sheet Features in MuseScore 1.1' got me interested
in MuseScore to begin with.

